Extend documentation and move to precice.org (#6)
precice/fmi-runner: docs/README.md

---

> title: The FMI runner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: FMI runner
```

permalink: tooling-fmi-runner.html
keywords: tooling, fmi, runner, fmi-settings, precice-settings

> summary: A tool to couple FMUs to PDE-based solvers using preCICE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: A tool to execute FMUs and couple them to PDE-based solvers using preCICE.
```

---

## What is this?

> The [Functional Mock-Up Interface](https://fmi-standard.org/) (FMI) is a standard for the exchange of dynamic simulation models. Currently, it is the de-facto industry standard for co-simulation. The models implementing the FMI standard are called Functional Mock-Up Units (FMU).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Functional Mock-Up Interface](https://fmi-standard.org/) (FMI) is a standard for the exchange of dynamic simulation models. Currently, it is the de-facto industry standard for co-simulation. Models implementing the FMI standard are called Functional Mock-Up Units (FMU).
```

> This tool contains the runner script `fmiprecice` to couple FMU models with other simulation tools via the coupling library [preCICE](https://precice.org/). The runner serves as an importer for the FMU to steer the simulation. Additionally, it calls the preCICE library to communicate and coordinate with other solvers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preCICE-FMI runner contains the script `fmiprecice` to couple FMU models with other simulation tools via [preCICE](https://precice.org/). The runner serves as an importer for the FMU to steer the simulation. Additionally, the runner calls the preCICE library to communicate and coordinate with other solvers. 
```

![img](images/precice-fmi-runner-setup.png)

## Usage

The runner is called from the terminal with the command `fmiprecice`. It takes two input files, one with settings for the FMU simulation and one with settings for preCICE. Start the runner by pointing to the input files:

```bash
fmiprecice ./fmi-settings.json ./precice-settings.json
```

> Read on to find out how to install and configure the runner. More information about the software, its abilities, and its limitations can be found in [1]. If you are ready to run your first case, have a look at the [oscillator tutorial](https://github.com/LeonardWilleke/precice-tutorials/tree/create-fmu-oscillator-v2/oscillator). 

Reviewer 2: This link should eventually point to the preCICE website.

Author: I have to re-work the FMI runner and the tutorial for preCICE v3 before we bring the FMI tutorial on the website. I would publish the documentation for the runner already and update it with the correct link once the tutorial is finished.

## Get the Runner

### Dependencies

Before you start the installation, make sure you have installed the following packages:

* Python 3 or higher

> * [preCICE](https://precice.org/installation-overview.html), v2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [preCICE](https://precice.org/installation-overview.html)
```
anyway clear

* [pyprecice: Python language bindings for preCICE](https://github.com/precice/python-bindings)
* [NumPy](https://numpy.org/install/)
* [FMPy](https://fmpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install/) (tested for v0.3.13)

To install the three python packages with the Python package manager **pip** run:

```bash
pip3 install pyprecice
pip3 install numpy
pip3 install fmpy
```

### Installation 

The software is [hosted on GitHub](https://github.com/precice/fmi-runner). Clone the repository and switch to the root directory:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/precice/fmi-runner.git
cd fmi-runner
```

To use **pip** for the installation, run the command:

```bash
pip3 install --user -e .
```

The editable flag `-e` allows you to update the FMI runner by pulling the repository.

To use **Python** for the installation, run the command:

```bash
python setup.py install --user
```

Maybe you need to add your user installation to your path to make the new software findable. To do so, run the command:

```bash
export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/.local/bin
```

> You're good to go! Read on to learn how to configure the FMI runner or [run your first simulation](https://github.com/LeonardWilleke/precice-tutorials/tree/create-fmu-oscillator-v2/oscillator).

Reviewer 2: Also here: point to the website.

## Configuration

> We use two settings files to configure the software to the specific simulation case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use two settings files to configure the software for a specific simulation case.
```

        "output": ["force", "position"]
    },
    "model_params": {
        "apply_filter":	true,
        "spring_coeff":	65.0
    },
    "initial_conditions": {
        "position":     0.0
  
    },
    "input_signals": {
        "names":["time",    "damping_coef"],
        "data": [
                [0.0,       0.0],
                [2.0,       5.0]
                ]
    }
}
```

The config file allows you to access and manipulate the variables within the FMU model. Therefore, the variable names have to match with the variables listed in the `ModelDescription.xml` of the FMU.

Let's have a closer look at the specific dictionaries:

**simulation_params**: The list `fmu_read_data_names` is used to specify the read data of the FMU, while the list `fmu_write_data_names` concerns the write data. If you exchange scalar data, use a list with one entry. If you exchange vector data via preCICE, the number of list entries has to match the dimensions defined in the `precice-config.xml`. For example, to read a two-dimensional force on two scalar FMU variables use

```json
    "simulation_params": {
        ...
        "fmu_read_data_name": ["force_1", "force_2"],
        ...
    }
```

> {% disclaimer %}
> The runner v0.1 can not deal with FMU vectors. All FMU variables need to be scalars. Besides that, any data type implemented in the FMU (integer, float, boolean, string) is supported.
> {% enddisclaimer %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% note %}
Version v0.1 of the runner cannot deal with FMU vectors. All FMU variables need to be scalars. Besides that, however, any data type implemented in the FMU (integer, float, boolean, string) is supported.
{% endnote %}
```

Optionally, you can choose variables in `output` that are tracked and stored as a timeseries in `output_file_name`.

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

**model_params**: Use this to set internal parameters before the start of the simulation. In this example, the parameters `apply_filter` and `spring_coeff` are set. The keys of this dictionary are the names of specific FMU variables.

**initial_conditions**: Use this to set initial conditions for internal parameters. Again, the keys of this dictionary are the names of specific FMU variables.

**input_signals**: You can set time-dependent input signals. The list `names` holds the different parameters. The first entry of this list is always `time`. The list `data` sets the input values for the variables given in `time`. The first entry of each nested list in `data` is the time at which the following data is set. Here, `damping_coef` is set to 5.0 at `t=2.0`. Of course, you can also set the values of boolean and string parameters.

### Configure the coupling

> The file `precice-settings.json` is used to configure the coupling with preCICE. It consist of one dictionary **coupling_params**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The file `precice-settings.json` is used to configure the coupling with preCICE. It consists of one dictionary **coupling_params**.
```

```json
{
    "coupling_params": {
        "participant_name": "Suspension",
        "config_file_name": "../precice-config.xml",
        "mesh_name": "Suspension-Mesh",
        "read_data": {"name": "Force", "type": "scalar"}, 
        "write_data": {"name": "Position", "type": "scalar"}
    }
}
```

> The `participant_name` and `mesh_name` need to match the entries in the `precice-config.xml`. The same is true for `write_data` and `read_data`, which control the data exchange. The `type` can be set to `scalar` or `vector`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`participant_name` and `mesh_name` need to match the entries in `precice-config.xml`. The same is true for `write_data` and `read_data`, which control the data exchange. `type` can be set to `scalar` or `vector`.
```

## Limitations

Current limitations of the FMI runner software are:

- Can only be used with preCICE v2 and Co-Simulation FMUs (FMI 1,2,3)
- All accessed FMU variables are scalar
- Data can only be exchanged via one vertex. The exchange of multiple vertices or full meshes is not possible.

## How to cite

If you are using the FMI runner, pĺease consider citing the following Thesis:

```bibtex
@misc{
    Willeke:2023,
    author   = {Willeke, Leonard},
    title    = {A preCICE-FMI Runner to Couple Controller Models to PDEs},
    school   = {University of Stuttgart},
    type     = {Master thesis},
    doi      = {10.18419/opus-13130},
    year     = {2023}

> },
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}
```
